US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin is
pressing ahead with a diplomatic tour of
the Middle East in the hope of securing
a ceasefire in Gaza blinkin is in Doha
where he has held talks with the qari
Prime Minister lean said negotiators
have received a response from Hamas on a
framework for a potential hostage deal
lean says he plans to discuss this with
Israeli leaders tomorrow
Wednesday here is US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin when I was last in the
region a few weeks ago uh I said then
that there's a very powerful path uh
that we can see before us to actually
get to Lasting peace and security and
it's coming ever more sharply into
Focus an Israel that is integrated into
the region with security guarantees from
its neighbors and
partners alongside a
practical time-bound irreversible path
to a Palestinian State living side by
side in peace Israel with the necessary
security arrangements for both
peoples uh but there are those who want
to move the region in a different
direction and take a different path and
who are actively working to sabotage
every effort to move toward lasting
peace and security all right let's take
this story now to Jerusalem my colleague
Ben fulan is on the story for us Ben
talk to me what is Anthony blinkin going
to be bringing to Israel tomorrow that
he has received in
Qatar he'll be bringing a response from
the hus leadership that's according uh
to well according to the Qatari PM a
positive response uh he also wants to
bring lasting and fair and just TR uh
peace to the region uh he's talking
about saving civilian lives not just uh
Palestinian lives but Israeli lives as
well the lives of the hostages in the
balance at the moment some 136 of them
believe to be dead or alive in Gaza and
then we're talking about a million
Palestinian civilians crowded into the
rougher border crossing region where
Israel is talking about launching
military operations a ground offensive
uh in the coming hours or days we don't
know uh we've been held in the dark on
so much of this Brent and we still don't
know what this hostage deal exactly
entails just that Hamas wants a
ceasefire a lasting ceasefire and then a
release of the hostages Israel demanding
the release of the hostages and the
possibility then of some sort of
ceasefire yeah and I'm talking about the
hostages tonight Israel have said that
31 of the remaining hostages in Gaza 31
hostages have died what more do we
know there' had been reports earlier in
the day an IDF uh spokesperson uh from
the Israeli military confirming that 31
of the hostages are dead and that the
families have been informed this has
been uh one of the biggest problems
Brent where into
day23 and uh so many of these uh
relatives of hostages just haven't known
the fate of the captives um some of
these are believed to have died on
October 7 there are suggest that some of
them died while in captivity we just
don't know um Hamas had been threatening
to kill them Hamas had also been saying
all along that some of these hostages
had died in Israeli air strikes perhaps
under other circumstances we just don't
know uh hamus also hasn't been able to
confirm at times their whereabouts and
their whereabouts are so crucial to this
hostage deal actually taking place and
going ahead yeah it'll be interesting to
see if what or if this plays any role
tomorrow when Anthony blinkin is in
Israel Ben fulan with the latest in
Jerusalem Ben thank
you thanks
Bren let's get across to Cairo where
journalist kareim El goari standing by
for us a this is of course far from
blinken's first attempt at shuttle
diplomacy here but it is his first visit
to the region since the US brokered an
offer for what could be the first
extended ceasefire can you remind us
what exactly is on the table with this
proposal well what's on the table is
what was negotiated already in Paris
between the Israelis the Americans q and
the Egyptians uh it's some kind of
temporary ceasefire and then a phased
exchange of hostages uh and prisoners uh
of course the there's one big sticking
point and we don't have yet an official
answer uh from Hamas to this proposal we
know that Hamas is extremely critically
because their demand is an end of the
war and then the exchange of prisoners
so um they want some kind of guarantee
that there is not a temporary ceasefire
but there is the final end of the war
and then the exchange of prisoners that
is the main sticking point and as you
could hear in your report Israel prime
minister benam nanahu is saying he will
move on until H the victory against
Hamas until Hamas is destroyed difficult
to see how Hamas is giving up its
hostage it's the only leverage they have
right now uh towards Israel while while
benam is announcing that he is out there
to destroy the very same people he's
negotiating with right now indirectly
and kareim meanwhile Israel's defense
minister has said said that the Israeli
offensive will eventually reach Rafa
that is that southernmost town in Gaza
right on the Egyptian border um you know
we know that more than half of gazin are
now displaced and living in miserable
conditions uh packed there in Rafa can
you tell us a little bit what an Israeli
assault on Rafa would mean uh for its
neighbor
Egypt well it's as you already mentioned
it's a very desperate situation in uh in
Rafa people are there a million people
there escaped from other areas in the
Gaza Strip with basically their back to
the Egyptian border the big fear of
course on the Egyptian side is that
there will be some kind of displacement
scheme a bigger displacement scheme of
Palestinians coming over to the Egyptian
side that is a Palestinian and also an
Arab trauma that whenever Palestinians
left their areas they were never able to
come back and that's the big fear in
Egypt that it's for sure sure also part
of the discussions with blinkin blinkin
already mentioned several times in the
last days that he would be against some
permanent displacement of Palestinians
from the Gaza Strip towards Egypt but
that really Remains the biggest fear in
Cairo well thank you so much for
bringing us up to speed there as always
that is journalist Kareem El goari in
Cairo for
us and I'd like to get some more
analysis from Christina kou a deputy
managing director at the German Marshall
fund South think tank thank you so much
for speaking with us on DW news I think
many have been asking why we have not
seen the United States putting more
pressure on Israel uh to end its
campaign and the fighting in Gaza and
I'm curious to get your take there uh
why do you think we haven't seen
stronger pressure from someone like
Anthony
blinkin
well good morning well there is a public
pressure there's there's pressure behind
the scenes and the letter I'm sure is to
be surely taking place um we have
reports that secretary blink that the US
government is increasingly frustrated
obviously with Benjamin Netanyahu um we
are an in electoral year for the United
States the United States public opinion
well the the the the
political uh elites on both sides of the
political Spectrum are um are are very
Pro Israeli it's the Israeli security is
one of the main interests of the United
States in the Middle East so this is a
very difficult situation for the US
government a very high ti What kind of
support to show publicly what kind of
pressures uh to articulate publicly um I
think that we have seen uh a great
pressure increasing not necessarily
probably had pressure increasing over
the last uh few weeks as compared to the
the immediate reaction to the sth
October attacks um but again I think
it's mainly due to domestic uh domestic
concerns that we don't do this and I'm
curious if you could tell us a little
bit more about about which domestic
influences are at play here because it's
always interesting when you look at us
foreign policy what is going on at home
and how that affects what is happening
abroad why do you think we see such
strong support for Israel um from both
sides of the island the
US well again well first of all you know
it's the the the security of Israel is a
has a long tradition and you US foreign
policy this is one of the few items
where you have by uh bipartisan support
if you compare for example the
discussions that have been taking place
in Congress on adopting um um aid for
Ukraine versus support to Israel in
security terms you know that these both
things have been discussed in parallel
the ones on Ukraine were highly travia
whereas the the the the the ones on
Israel were easy so uh there is really a
strong pressure in General on the on any
US government to take care of of Israeli
security and make this a high priority
and of course in a situation like this
where Israel is attacked uh um out of
the blue for the isra government in such
a horrendous fashion uh the first
reaction for any US government has to be
to fully throw their weight behind the
Israeli government and again uh so I
don't think they have a choice in an
electoral year this is this this
pressure gets even worse and the United
States is of course such a powerful
partner um for Israel I'm curious
whether they're powerful enough to make
Benjamin nanaho change his mind uh or
whether there are also other
International partners and allies uh
that might have influence on
him um I think it would be mistake to
assume that it's mainly International
allies or Partners externals who are the
ones the players that going to turn the
tide here on Nan I think both with
regard to netan and his government and
regard to Hamas we have a situation here
where um they would only agree to a
change of the current status quo if that
benefits them and if it doesn't mean
their own political the end of their
political careers and as the situation
stands now right now um Netanyahu has
all is to continue the current situation
because all of the current options for
ending this the current the current the
War uh would most likely result in his
out in the end of his own political
career in the same way Hamas has no
interest in giving up as the previous
speaker mentioned has no interest in
giving up up the hostage has no interest
in in in ending the situation it is now
so the there the US can pressure as much
as as it wants um if the if diplomacy
doesn't produce uh an offer or a
solution that would incentivize any of
these actors to uh to move and right now
clearly we don't have we don't have that
situation where Netanyahu sees that it
is in his interest to stop the fighting
and I think that is a process that is
the process that um that blinkin is
trying to bring forward in all this
shuttle diplomacy currently well thank
you so much for your analysis today that
is Christina kou from the German
Marshall funds sou we very much
appreciate your
time